Name: Paul M. Cray
Genre: Historiographic Metafiction
Working title: THE VISIBILTIES
Logline: 
Description:

Who is this story about and what do they want on page 1?

Paul Michael Cray and his fictional expies/alter egos (Andrew Stephen Grove, Alexander Gerald Blackwell and his Imaginary Friends and Enemies). It's the story of how one man and his imaginary friends end up in West Seattle at the cusp of the Technological Singularity. What does Paul/Andrew want? 'History is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.' Andrew wants to awake from (escape) history. Andrew was broken by a burden he was never fit to carry. So, we have him seeking Healing (in the Clutean FE sense). This fits with the concept of instauration (restoration) and, I think, ultimately, eucatastrophe. Consider Stephen Dedalus on his retreat. The image of eternity is, of course, horrifying and terrifying. Andrew wants to understand the universe (or the multiverse or the ensemble of all possible classes of multiverse). But this grandiosity dooms him to (near?) certain failure and to sufferfrom his deep (Burtonian) melancholy. Andrew is profoundly alienated from a society into which he struggles to align and also the constant nagging sense that There is Something There That He Can't Quite Get At. Of course, he is seeking homecoming (healing/return). The overwhelming weight of Preston and the often suffocating (in many ways) restrictions of late C20th Catholic Lancashire. The character is attempting to achieve this through writing the book. We have both the Real, Historical Author (me - or some version of me) who is writing the book that all the other characters are part of. Of course, the characters, in the classic sense, can do things the author does not wish them to do. The novel is a strnge loop. Its primary model is Hofstadter's 'Goedel, Escher, Bach'. The protagonist is creating the jewelled puzzle box of the novel. If the characterdoes not succeed, entropy wins, the multiverse decays, everything is lost. The characters end up (are trapped?) in a malign timeline. It might be one in which the whole of that universe is destroyed by the decay of the false vacuum. It might be a nuclear war or gray goo or pandemic or any of a thousand other planetary and cosmic catastrophes.

Antagonists
===========

The Adamantine, fighting a constant changwar with the Amaranthine. But who are really the goodies and the baddies?
The Mechanicoanthropid Hivemind that various polities are fighting a forever war against in the Foreven sector
Entropy
Weakly Godlike Entities/The Powers
Adrian Simpson Rosebery
'James Beard'-like character

TV is a novel about thermodynamics and, in particular, phase changes. In some TLs, the protagonist is dead. In others, he has transcended in some ways. This links us to Peter Nicholls's idea of Conceptual Breakthrough. TV is both a fantasy and a science fiction novel. Its characters are fractured across hundreds of timelines in the book, which are merely the palest reflection of all the true worlds that exist in the infinite layers of the Spinozaverse   
